---
layout: post
title: 'New release: 1.2.14'
author: foosel
date: 2016-07-28 14:20:00 +0200
excerpt: A big load of improvements and of course the usual share of fixes of
  bugs and minor annoyances awaits you in this release fresh off the
  presses.
images:
- /assets/img/blog/2016-07/2016-07-28-state-panel.png
- /assets/img/blog/2016-07/2016-07-28-upload-highlight-demo.gif
card: /assets/img/blog/2016-07/2016-07-28-release-card.png
featuredimage: /assets/img/blog/2016-07/2016-07-28-release-card.png
---

----

**Note** Some people are [reporting communication issues](https://github.com/foosel/OctoPrint/issues/1423)
with this release. The release has been withdrawn (marked as `prerelease`)
while this is being investigated to make sure you don't run into issues
as well.

----

Even though a heat wave over Germany did its best the past couple of
weeks to turn my office into an oven I nevertheless kept on coding and 
am now pleased to present you with OctoPrint 1.2.14. 

A couple of highlights of this release:

  * I got into another all out fist fight with the print time estimation and put a
    couple of sanity checks in there. Along with this goes a visual
    indicator on the frontend of the accuracy of the "Print Time Left"
    value at any given time with a tool tip specifying the current
    source of the estimate - like a traffic light with explanation. 
    The estimation is still just that, an estimation with varying accuracy
    and which can deviate from the truth, but at least it should now be a
    bit more transparent how reliable the current value is - and it should 
    hopefully also be a bit more accurate than before as well.
  * Have you ever uploaded a file and then had to use the search to
    recover it because it drowned in your sea of files? 
    That's a thing of the past now. After an upload the file
    list now scrolls to the uploaded file (again - this behaviour was
    in for years but fell prey to a bug) and the file also gets a small
    and temporary visual highlight to make it really get your attention.
    There's a small GIF below that shows how all that comes together.
  * The print progress now also displays the percentage. The upload and
    GCODE viewer loading progress bars were also visually improved
    in the process, centering their contained text so its easier to
    read.
  * The info clusters in the "State" sidebar panel now have a slightly
    improved visual distinction between printer state, info about the
    selected file and the current print progress. In the long run that
    whole panel should probably be reevaluated but for now it should
    at least improve things. A tiny screenshot of that and also the
    visual indicator of the "Print Time Left" estimation mentioned
    above can be found below.
  * A printer that goes offline without shutting down its serial line
    will now be detected as having gone offline. That goes along with a
    slight change in how communication timeouts are handled in general,
    hopefully improving handling of unresponsive printers.
  * Thanks to [Mark Walker](https://github.com/markwal) this release of 
    OctoPrint also now has a feature flag to enable compatibility with
    RepRapFirmware SD card behaviour.

And of course there are a lot more tiny improvements and bug fixes.
 
*Important note for people using the GPX plugin up to version 2.5.2*: 
Please wait a bit with this update. The plugin needs a minor fix first 
to solve a small issue currently present that causes trouble with this 
release. Once the GPX plugin is updated to a version after 2.5.2, it is 
safe to update to OctoPrint 1.2.14 or later as well.

You can find the full changelog and release notes as usual 
[on Github](https://github.com/foosel/OctoPrint/releases/tag/1.2.14).

It may take up to 24h for your update notification to pop up, so don't 
be alarmed if it doesn't show up immediately after reading this.

If you don't get an "Update Now" button with your update notification, 
read [this](https://github.com/foosel/OctoPrint/wiki/Plugin:-Software-Update#making-octoprint-updateable-on-existing-installations)
or - even more specifically - [this](https://github.com/foosel/OctoPrint/wiki/Plugin:-Software-Update#octoprint--125).

If you do get an "Update Now" button but the update is immediately 
reported to be successful without any changes, read 
[this](https://github.com/foosel/OctoPrint/wiki/FAQ#im-running-127-i-tried-to-update-to-a-newer-version-via-the-software-update-plugin-but-im-still-on-127-after-restart).

If you have any problems with your OctoPrint installation, please seek 
support in the [G+ Community](https://plus.google.com/communities/102771308349328485741)
or the [Mailinglist](https://groups.google.com/group/octoprint). 

#### Further Information & Links:

  * [FAQ](https://github.com/foosel/OctoPrint/wiki/FAQ)
  * [Docs](http://docs.octoprint.org/)
  * [Contribution Guidelines (also relevant for creating bug reports!)](https://github.com/foosel/OctoPrint/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)
  * [How to file a bug report](https://github.com/foosel/OctoPrint/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#how-to-file-a-bug-report)
